then the children of Israel did evil in
the sight of the Lord so the Lord
delivered them into the hand of Midian
for seven years and the hand of Midian
prevailed against Israel because of the
Midianites the children of Israel made
for themselves the dens the caves and
the strongholds which are in the
mountains so it was whenever Israel had
sown Midianites would come up also
Amalekites and the people of the east
would come up against them then they
would in camp against them and destroy
the produce of the earth as far as Gaza
and leave no sustenance for Israel
neither sheep nor ox nor donkey for they
would come up with their livestock and
their temps coming in as numerous as
locusts both they and their camels were
without London and they would enter the
land to destroy it so Israel was greatly
impoverished because of the Midianites
and the children of Israel cried out to
the Lord and it came to pass when the
children of Israel cried out to the Lord
because of the Midianites that the Lord
sent a prophet to the children of Israel
thus says the Lord God of Israel I
brought you up from Egypt and brought
you out of the house of bondage and I
delivered you out of the hand of the
Egyptians and out of the hand of all who
oppressed you and drove them out before
you and gave you their land also I said
to you
I am the Lord your God do not fear the
gods of the amur rights and whose land
you dwell but you have not obeyed my
voice the angel of the Lord came and sat
under the terebinth tree which was in
Afra which belonged to Jewish the a baes
right while his son Gideon threshed
wheat in the winepress in order to hide
it from the Midianites and the angel of
the Lord appeared to him the Lord is
with you you mighty man of Valor o my
lord if the Lord is with us why then has
all this happened to us and where are
all his miracles which our fathers told
us about saying did not the Lord bring
us up from Egypt but now the Lord has
forsaken us and delivered us into the
hands of the Midianites go on this mite
of yours you shall save Israel from the
hands of the Midianites have I not sent
you
oh my lord how can I save Israel indeed
my clan is the weakest in Manasseh and I
am the least in my father's house surely
I will be with you and you shall defeat
the Midianites as one man if now I have
found favor in your sight then show me a
sign that it is you who talk with me do
not depart from here I pray until I come
to you and bring out my offering and set
it before I will wait until you come
back
so Gideon went in and prepared a young
goat and unleavened bread from the ephah
of flat the meat he put in a basket and
he put the broth in a pot and he brought
them out to him under the terebinth tree
and presented them the angel of God said
to him take the meat and the unleavened
bread and lay them on this rock and pour
out the broth and he did so then the
angel of the Lord put out the end of the
staff that was in his hand and touched
the meat and the unleavened bread and
the fire rose out of the rock and
consumed the meat and the unleavened
bread and the angel of the Lord departed
out of his sight now Gideon perceived
that he was the angel of the Lord alas o
Lord God for I have seen the angel of
the Lord face to face peace be with you
do not fear you shall not die so gideon
built an altar there to the lord and
called it the lord is peace to this day
it is still in Afra of the a by is
rights now it came to pass the same
night that the Lord said to him take
your father's young ball the second bull
of seven years old and tear down the
altar of Bale that your father has and
cut down the wooden image that is beside
it and build an altar to the Lord your
God on top of this rock in the proper
arrangement and take the second ball and
offer a burnt sacrifice with the wood of
the image but you shall cut down so
Gideon took ten men from among his
servants and did as the Lord had said to
him but because he feared his father's
household and the men of the city too
much to do it by day he did it by night
and when the men of the city arose early
in the morning there was the altar of
bail torn down
and the wooden image that was beside it
was cut down and the second bull was
being offered on the altar which had
been built so they said to one another
who has done this thing and when they
had inquired and asked they said Gideon
the son of joash has done this thing and
the men of the city said to Josh bring
out your son that he may die because he
has torn down the altar of bail and
because he has cut down the wooden image
that was beside it
but Jewish said to all who stood against
him would you plead for bail would you
save them let the one who would plead
for him be put to death by morning if he
is a god let him plead for himself
because his altar has been torn down
therefore on that day he called him
cherub Bale saying let Bale plead
against him because he has torn down his
altar and all the Midianites and
Amalekites the people of the east
gathered together and they crossed over
and encamped in the valley of Jezreel
but the Spirit of the Lord came upon
Gideon then he blew the trumpet and the
a by his rights gathered behind him and
he sent messengers throughout all
Manasseh who also gathered behind him he
also sent messengers to Asher Zebulun
and Naphtali and they came up to meet
them so Gideon said to God if you will
save Israel by my hand as you have said
look I shall put the fleece of wool on
the threshing floor if there is dew on
the fleece only and it is dry and all
the ground then I shall know that you
will save Israel by my hand as you have
said and it was so
when he rose early the next morning and
squeezed the fleece together he wrung
the dew out of the fleece a bowl full of
water then Gideon said to God do not be
angry with me but let me speak just once
more
let me test I pray just once more with
the fleece let it now be dry only on the
fleece but on all the ground let there
be do and God did so that night it was
dry on the fleece only but there was jus
on all the ground
you